Plan to fix admission chain for subresources (#1600)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-api-machinery/0006-apply.md

- 12/2019 [#86083](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/86083) implementing a poc for the described approach

> #### Fix Admission Chain for Subresources

Author: Done.

##### Current Behavior

Currently, the admission chain on a subresource is not propagated for the parent
resource.

When a user makes a request to a subresource, then admission webhooks and

> validation are skipped on the parent, and we don't have the user information to

Reviewer: I'd suggest phrasing this differently, since it makes it sound like subresource requests cannot be intercepted by admission. Something more like, "API requests to subresources are only intercepted by webhooks that registered for the subresource, not webhooks that registered for the parent resource."

Author: Ah whoops, I see. Done.

set the field manager for the parent.

For example, a validating webhook on Deployments to enforce a replica policy
can be bypassed by any /scale subresource request because
the webhook admission chain is not called on the subresource. We cannot track
that the user who made the request to the /scale resource owns the replicas

> field.

Author: Oops, fixed

##### Proposed Change

The webhooks will be called for the subresource and parent using the same

> admission context, such that the original user is represented in the admission

Reviewer 2: Would you mind reminding quickly what "admission context" means here? For a deployment, would this mean that the deployment webhook would receive the full updated deployment, or just the scale object?

> attributes. Webhooks will opt-in to this behavior on subresources in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
attributes. Webhooks will opt-in to the new behavior (of being called for subresources, too) in the
```

registration.

The webhooks will be called in the following order, considering a request to
`/foo/scale` as an example:
1. mutating webhooks will be called on the included subresource (/foo/scale)
2. mutating webhooks will be called on the parent (/foo)

> 3. optionally, mutating webhooks will be called a second time in the same order

Reviewer 2: Mention that this is already what we do for mutating webhooks AFAIK

Reviewer 3: +1

Author: Done.

   (1), then (2) (/foo/scale, then /foo)

> 4. validating webhooks will be called in parallel for the subresource and parent

Reviewer 2: Do we already do these in parallel?

Reviewer 3: Yes.

Author: Updated to say we do this already, too.

   (/foo/scale and /foo simultaneously)

Note that when applying mutating webhooks on the included subresources (1),
then any modification attempts to implicitly modify fields of the parent that
are not explicitly fields of the subresource will be discarded before writing to

> storage.

Author: Oops one thing I didn't flesh out here is how a subresource request will be prepared and converted to a request to update the parent, as described in https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/82046#issuecomment-525511821, and how the discarding/pruning will work

> lavalamp commented on Aug 27, 2019
> I would have expected we fix this by turning a request to /scale into a corresponding request against the main resource and running through the ordinary code?
> 
> lavalamp commented on Aug 27, 2019
> A large motivator for apply as a feature is letting robots manage spec.replicas, which is the purpose of /scale. So, this is not a small bug.
> 
> jennybuckley commented on Aug 27, 2019
> lavalamp I think that's the right way to fix it, but it's not how scale subresource works now. I think a request to deployments/scale, for example, doesn't go through all the normal admission for deployments
> 
> apelisse commented on Aug 27, 2019 • 
> Yes, webhooks and validation are done on the scale objects, not the final/"patched" object, which I found a little confusing too:
> https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/registry/apps/deployment/storage/storage.go#L272-L320

> storage.

Reviewer 2: That seem to answer my question above about seing the full object or not.

After webhooks and validation pass, then we'll use the user in the
admission context to properly track the field manager for server-side apply when
writing the parent to storage.

> We'll add the new field `includeSubresources` to the admission webhook

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that this is for compatibility reasons

Author: Done.

configurations to indicate that when a user makes a request to a webhook,
then the webhook will be called on the subresource and its parent.
This field will accept a list of subresource names, with support for wildcard matches.

For example, `includeSubresources: ["*"]` would call a webhook on any
subresource and its parent when a user makes a request to any subresource.

An example below is included for a validating webhook configuration
as policy on replicas for Deployments.

```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
metadata:
  name: "deployment-replicas-policy.example.com"
webhooks:
- name: "deployment-replicas-policy.example.com"
  includeSubresources:
  - /scale
  # Note that the subresource /status is not included
  rules:
  - operations: ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
    apiGroups: ["apps"]
    apiVersions: ["v1", "v1beta1"]

>     resources: ["deployments"]

Reviewer 4: Could the subresources could also be defined in the rules?
I'm not sure if there is a common use case for it, but I'd have expected the field there

Reviewer 3: You can already list subresources in this field: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#rulewithoperations-v1-admissionregistration-k8s-io

e.g. `resources: ["deployments", "deployments/scale"]` should already work?

It's confusing to have subresources appear in two places in the api?

Reviewer 3: I think the proposed difference is about the type sent to the webhook. Registering for the subresource gets you the subresource's Kind; registering for the parent resource gets you the parent resources's Kind. (And... registering for both gets you two calls, one with each Kind.)

I think the proposal needs to spell this out explicitly and state exactly the interactions. (like, maybe you shouldn't be able to specify `includeSubresources` AND register for subresources in the resources field.)

Reviewer: It's also not spelled out here what `includeSubresources: true` would do when a request was made to a subresource which does not actually modify the parent resource (like a POST request to pods/proxy or pods/exec... would that appear as a CREATE pods request? if so, with what Pod content?)

Reviewer 3: We should make it clear that this is only about "resource type" subresources and not "passthrough type" subresources.

We can make a list of the existing passthrough-type subresources and enforce in validation that they're not permitted.

In the future, I'd like the aggregator to be configured to handle them directly, and I'd like no additional ones until then, so I think a hardcoded list is OK for the moment..

Reviewer: kube-apiserver doesn't know which aggregated subresources are passthrough...

Reviewer 3: That's true; do any exist, though?

We can always just leave a warning that requesting the pass-through type of subresource will not have an effect; I'm fine with that and actually kind of prefer it. I suggested the validation because often people want more.

Author: Maybe a better option for `includeSubresources: true` could be `admissionReviewKindPolicy: Exact|Parent`, where `Exact` would be the current behavior (exact kind sent for admission), while `Parent` would send the parent kind at admission.

Currently, passthrough type subresource `/scale` sends a Scale kind for admission and `/status` sends its parent kind for admission.

To fix this, we need passthrough type subresources that don't send their parent kind at admission time (only `/scale` right now) to be converted at admission (similar to the conversion we do in storage).

I don't know exactly what the plumbing would look like, but an interface like this could be used at admission to identify passthrough subresources where this behavior applies:

```
package rest

type PassthroughSubresource interface {
  ToParentKind(runtime.Object) runtime.Object
}
```

called only for the subresource, but not its parent. We cannot track that the
user who made the request to the /scale resource owns the replicas field.

##### Proposed Change

The webhooks will be called for the subresource and parent using the same
admission context, such that the original user is represented in the admission
attributes. For compatibility, webhooks will opt-in to the new behavior (of
being called for subresources, too) in the registration.

The webhooks will be called in the order below, considering a request to
`/foo/scale` as an example.

1.  Mutating webhooks will be called on the included subresource (/foo/scale).
1.  Mutating webhooks will be called on the parent. (/foo)
1.  Optionally, mutating webhooks will be called a second time in the same order
    (1), then (2) (/foo/scale, then /foo). We already do this for mutating
    webhooks.
1.  Validating webhooks will be called in parallel for the subresource and
    parent (/foo/scale and /foo simultaneously). We already do this for
    validating webhooks.

Note that when applying mutating webhooks on the included subresources (1), then

> any modification attempts to implicitly modify fields of the parent that are not

Reviewer 2: Was that what we agreed upon?

My thoughts are:
1. discarding without failing is usually a bad idea, since this is a "new feature" we don't have to do that for compatibility reasons. But that's a little muddy.
2. What's the rational for only updating the accessible fields? Right, one can't see the changes that happened since we don't return the full object. That makes me a little sad. That also sounds a little bit like a privilege escalation. Maybe you're right.

Author: No this wasn't agreed upon, but this is the strawman from this thread: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/84530#issuecomment-577812497.
